To implement this new approach, we could delete the view folder but we can also just ignore it.
I will comment out these two lines because we won't send back any HTML rendered templates anymore,
instead now I want to exchange JSON data.
So for that, we can also comment out
these middlewares here and when we parse incoming data for our API which we're now building, I also don't
expect form data anymore but I expect JSON data,
so I will try to parse incoming JSON data here.
Now I want to set up two routes, two URLs which I handle here on this backend Node.js server,
one URL which can be triggered from share place,
basically when we select a place here, I want to send the request to this backend server with the chosen
address and the chosen coordinates, so that on the backend we can store that in a database and create
a unique ID for that which we then send back to the frontend and the second URL I want is reached
from my-place.js where we extract an ID from the URL and then request the data for that place
here from our server as well.
Now to split our code a bit more and have a clearer structure, I'll create a new folder, routes which
should hold these routes so that in app.js, we just have the general setup like this body parsing which
I set up and then we have our routes, so the specific different paths which we want to support and the
logic for that in a separate file. So for that, let's go into the routes folder and here, I will add
my-location.js
file,
you can name this however you want of course and there
we also need to import Express by requiring Expressy
You need to import this in any file where you want to use it.
Here I won't create a new Express app, so we'll not execute it like this,
instead we can use another feature which is part of the Express package and that's the Express router.
We can execute this as a as a function here and store it in a constant,
the router makes it easy for us to register different routes. You can simply specify the kind of HTTP
method you want to support,
for example a post method and then any incoming post request to the path which you specify as the first
argument, for example slash nothing or /add-location, whatever you want, will then be handled
by the function you specify as a second argument which receives a request, a response and the next function
here.
So it's like a middleware but filtered for a path and a specific HTTP method and only incoming post requests
to this address here will make it into this
function. Now that's one of the two routes we need,
the other route will be a get route because we want to get data,
we want to get let's say a specific location for a specific ID and I'll come back to how that works
later, for now let's focus on the post route. So here on the post route, the idea now is that we get some
data and keep in mind that we parsed data here,
so we got it already extracted and stored in this body property of the request object and the data we
get there are the coordinates and the address and then we want to store that in a database.
Now let's add the database later, for now here I'll just use an in-memory storage which will basically
live as long as our server lives but whenever we shut down the server, it will be lost,
so it's not a great permanent storage but here to get started it's fine and there I'll have my location
storage which simply is let's say a Javascript object and there I have my locations which is an array
and now here when we got an incoming request, I'll reach out to location storage.locations and I push a
new location in there and this new location will receive an ID which I want to generate on the fly.
For that, we can for example use math random which is not perfectly unique but for now it will do, later
we'll have a better ID and then I will have my address which we get from the request body, request
body.address
let's say, we expect an address field on the incoming request body and the coords, the coordinates which
could be a nested object with a lat key which we get from request.body.lat
let's say and a lng key which we get from request.body.lng.
Of course it will be our duty to make sure that when we sent this request, we do provide this address
field on the body of the request and this lat and lng fields on the request body
and with that we should add this to our location storage.
Now sending back a response would also be nice so that we basically provide some answer to the client
who sent us this data
and here we can use the JSON method to send back a JSON response.
It's like using send and setting the content type to JSON manually,
here we can simply abbreviate this and just send back JSON data, we can send back an object which
will be converted to JSON automatically by Express.js and there we could have a message maybe where
we say stored location or whatever you want to send back. You could always add an extra validation
where you first of all check whether you got valid coordinates and you may be send back an error if
that's not the case
but to not dive too deeply into that right now, let's ignore that and
let's just assume we get valid data here. With all of that, we got our first routes set up but it lives
in the location.js file. Right now nowhere in this application we tell Javascript or Node or Express
that we're interested in this file.
So back to app.js which is the file we actually will execute with Node with this command here in the
terminal, here we should import this location.js file or the routes set up there to be precise and
we should then also tell Express.js that it should consider these routes when it funnels the request
through all the middlewares. Now to import something from that file, we first of all need to export
something here and here Node.js has its own export syntax, you don't have an export keyword as you
have it in client side Javascript, instead you export with module.exports. This by the way might look
familiar to you, it is what we had here in the webpack config earlier because I mentioned that this
would be handled by Node.js,
well here is how we export something in a Node.js file. We then point at the something which should
be exported and here, that's the router with these registered routes that are added to it.
So here we export this configured Express router and now we can import it into another file and we do
import with the syntax you see up there. We can import our routes here, however you want to name it, by
requiring this file where we store them, so ./routes to go to the routes folder and then
location, maybe name it location routes therefore but the name is up to you. Here we have a relative
path, before we just had the package names but now we're not working with a package but with one of our
own files and therefore we have to specify a relative path here and also important,
you can and should omit the file extension here,
Node.js will add it for you automatically when it looks up this file,
it will look for a Javascript file in there after all.
Now we just have to tell Express.js that it should consider these location routes and for that, after
parsing the body
but before you listen, you want to register a new middleware here and that should just be the location
routes here because it turns out the Express router is actually a middleware
you can register in your Express application and now Express knows that it should funnel incoming requests
through these routes as well
and there, we have our filtering logic by HTTP method and by path to then execute these functions
which in the end are also just like middleware functions you could say. So that was a lot of talking,
now if we start our server, let's see if it works. Server is running,
now we need to work on the client side and make sure that in share place, once we got coordinates and
address, we send a request to our backend. Now the backend is running on port 3000, the frontend
by default has port 8080, the webpack dev server takes this. So we have no clash here,
we have to use different ports because these are two totally different servers as if they were running
on different domains and therefore now here, we can use fetch for example to send the request to HTTP
localhost:3000 for now because we're running this locally
but again this is like a separate server,
it is technically a separate server and then here, we want to send the request to /add-location
because that's the path we're filtering out with a post request here. So send this to /add-location
and now configure this request because as I just said it should be a post request,
so we want to add the method here and set this to post and add a body to this request and this body
should be the coordinates and the address.
So for that, we can call json.stringify because we need to provide some JSON content here and
json. stringify object and now it's important that we pass the right keys here,
we have to pass the keys which we tried to extract on the backend. There
we're looking for an address key, for a lat key and for an lng key, so we should provide exactly these
keys here as well,
an address key which holds the address we're getting here and then a lat key which holds
coordinates.latitude
and then a lng key which holds coordinates.lng
and this should now be a valid body for our request.
Now let's also provide some headers here to tell the backend that we're sending some JSON data,
so here I will add my headers,
I will add the content-type header and set this to application/json to tell the backend
that we're sending some JSON data so that body parser and app.js which is watching for JSON data
knows that this is a request where it should parse its body.
So now we're trying to send this,
then we get back a response here in the end,
so we might want to parse that JSON data in there and return that, as you learned this returns a new
promise
and thereafter we got the data and our response which we for now can just log here on the client. You
could of course also use async await if you wanted to,
here I'll go for two then blocks.
Now in reality, you might also want to check if the status code is ok, if you've got any errors
but on our server, we're not setting any other status codes than the default 200 code
and we're also not throwing any errors unless we have a bug in there,
so for now we can leave it as it is,
it's just there so that we can have a look at how this generally works. So with all of that, let's save
the client side code
and then here, make sure you've got all packages installed which I'll do again here because I deleted
node modules in this project in between the different videos and with dependencies installed,
let's run npm run build: dev to bring up that development server, looking good, running on localhost:8080
as you can see.
So now here if you visit localhost:8080, this works, let's open a console to see if it really works
and now here I will find a place, maybe also enter a correct one, 6th avenue, find place.
Now this works but we got an error here and it's coming from our server and it's complaining about some
CORS thing,
now what's that?